A collection of scripts for youtube, intended to be run straight from bookmarks bar.

# ytRmPlayerOverlay #
Removes player controls and gradients (top and bottom) so that you can for example take screenshots. Works for both fullscreen and... not fullscreen mode.

## How to use? ##
* Go to https://github.com/szycikm/ytUtils/blob/master/ytRmPlayerOverlay.js and copy all the code to clipboard
* Create a new bookmark in your internet browser. Name it how you want, and paste the code you copied in the address field (newlines should get removed automatically)
* Open some video and click the bookmark you created

# ytPlaylistSnapshot #
**This is NOT a playlist/video downloader**. The only thing it does is it saves a *list* of videos from a youtube playlist, with links, titles, channel names, lengths, and (optionally) thumbnails.

## Why? ##
Videos on Youtube get deleted, unlisted, and blocked. That's bad in itself, but the other problem is that if you saved the video in a playlist, it will just display *\[Deleted video\]* or something like this instead of title. No channel name. No thumbnail. Not even video length. You can only guess what was that video. I made a little script that allows to take "snapshots" of playlists and save them on local drive. With that, if a video gets deleted, you can still find or at least search for it on other streaming services, or perhaps also on Youtube (reupload).

Why not just save whole pages straight from Youtube? It's much slower and space inefficient, as you have to download everything, including scripts. Also the thumbnails are small.

Note: this works only with old Youtube UI. Enable it by adding *disable_polymer=true* param to Youtube url, or by installing a browser extension that does that automatically.

## How to use ##
* Go to https://github.com/szycikm/ytUtils/blob/master/ytPlaylistSnapshot.js and copy all the code to clipboard
* Create a new bookmark in your internet browser. Name it how you want, and paste the code you copied in the address field (newlines should get removed automatically)
* Open a playlist (NOT a video that's in a playlist, but the playlist itself)
* If the playlist is longer than 100 videos, scroll down and press "see more" until all videos are revealed
* Click on the bookmark you created before
* Parsing the page might take a few seconds, depending on playlist length
* Select location where to save the list (as html file)
* By default thumbnails are not downloaded - images are displayed from Youtube server, so they *will* go down when a video is removed
* If you want to save thumbnails to hard drive, open the list generated by the script in internet browser and press ctrl+S. That will save a version of the page with links to local images (images will also be download)

## Bugs ##
* Sometimes, when used too quickly after the page loads, the script may fail to match. Maybe some DOM elements are placed asynchronously or something. If the downloaded file is large (e.g. >1MB) the script has failed and whole page was downloaded. Oopsie daisy. Just try again and it will probably work.

## Tools used ##
* plain js
* regex
